user/pages/04.blog/articles-2022/221222-pod-157/221222-podcast-157.md, before:

---
taxonomy:
    tags: [Blog, Show, Zimbabwe, Mining]
routes:
    default: '/podcast-btc-mining-zimbabwe'
date: 2022-12-22 09:00
dateformat: 'Y-m-d H:i'
summary: In this episode I'm talking with a Zimbabwean farmer, who's using solar power to mine bitcoin. This conversation was recorded in June 2022 and I think it's still the only mining operation in the country.
thumbnail: _221222-podcast-157-1671788857781.jpeg
template: article 
---

# Podcast: Mining Bitcoin With Solar in Zimbabwe

In this episode I'm talking with a Zimbabwean farmer, who's using solar power to mine bitcoin. This conversation was recorded in June 2022 and I think it's still the only mining operation in the country. It was through BFF that someone donated old ASIC machines to the farmer, those are still profitable due to the free power.

Zimbabwe's monetary system is broken. After decades of mismanagement and corruption the country is running into another hyper-inflation period with 400% inflation in April 2022. Now the first Bitcoin miners arrived! Learn how my guest got into Bitcoin, what he thinks about the use of Bitcoin for Zimbabweans and his thoughts and experiences from mining.

https://twitter.com/AnitaPosch/status/1545082894871298050

This episode was released on July 7, 2022.

<iframe width="100%" height="112" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" style="width: 100%; height: 112px;  overflow: hidden;" src="https://btcpodcasting.com/@anitaposch/episodes/bitcoin-mining-zimbabwe/embed/dark"></iframe>

### How to listen to my podcast

This is a [Value4Value](https://value4value.info) bitcoin enabled podcast. This means you can use a lightning wallet like Breez on your phone and send some satoshis to me while listening to the episode. I'm adding images and links to the episode chapters, you can see them on [the Breez app](https://breez.technology), too. It's a podcast app and a non-custodial bitcoin wallet, with a lightning node running on your phone! (available for Android and iOS)

Search for The Anita Posch Show inside the podcast app or add the RSS feed directly and subscribe to my show. The URL for the [RSS Feed](https://btcpodcasting.com/@anitaposch/feed.xml) is https://btcpodcasting.com/@anitaposch/feed.xml. 

---
You like my work and efforts with [Bitcoin for Fairness](https://bffbtc.org) to foster Bitcoin adoption on the ground in the Global South? It's all community powered and funded by donations. Feel free to [support our campaign with a donation](https://anita.link/geyser), send sats to our lightning address bff@geyser.fund or send fiat money on [Patreon](https://patreon.com/anitaposch).

Commit message:

Adding latest blogposts, imporve converter, add title to frontmatter for search results.

user/pages/04.blog/articles-2022/221222-pod-157/221222-podcast-157.md, after:

---
title: Podcast: Mining Bitcoin With Solar in Zimbabwe
taxonomy:
    tags: [Blog, Show, Zimbabwe, Mining]
routes:
    default: '/podcast-btc-mining-zimbabwe'
date: 2022-12-22 09:00
dateformat: 'Y-m-d H:i'
summary: In this episode I'm talking with a Zimbabwean farmer, who's using solar power to mine bitcoin. This conversation was recorded in June 2022 and I think it's still the only mining operation in the country.
thumbnail: _221222-podcast-157-1671788857781.jpeg
template: article
---

# Podcast: Mining Bitcoin With Solar in Zimbabwe

In this episode I'm talking with a Zimbabwean farmer, who's using solar power to mine bitcoin. This conversation was recorded in June 2022 and I think it's still the only mining operation in the country. It was through BFF that someone donated old ASIC machines to the farmer, those are still profitable due to the free power.

Zimbabwe's monetary system is broken. After decades of mismanagement and corruption the country is running into another hyper-inflation period with 400% inflation in April 2022. Now the first Bitcoin miners arrived! Learn how my guest got into Bitcoin, what he thinks about the use of Bitcoin for Zimbabweans and his thoughts and experiences from mining.

https://twitter.com/AnitaPosch/status/1545082894871298050

This episode was released on July 7, 2022.

<iframe width="100%" height="112" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" style="width: 100%; height: 112px;  overflow: hidden;" src="https://btcpodcasting.com/@anitaposch/episodes/bitcoin-mining-zimbabwe/embed/dark"></iframe>

### How to listen to my podcast

This is a [Value4Value](https://value4value.info) bitcoin enabled podcast. This means you can use a lightning wallet like Breez on your phone and send some satoshis to me while listening to the episode. I'm adding images and links to the episode chapters, you can see them on [the Breez app](https://breez.technology), too. It's a podcast app and a non-custodial bitcoin wallet, with a lightning node running on your phone! (available for Android and iOS)

Search for The Anita Posch Show inside the podcast app or add the RSS feed directly and subscribe to my show. The URL for the [RSS Feed](https://btcpodcasting.com/@anitaposch/feed.xml) is https://btcpodcasting.com/@anitaposch/feed.xml. 

---
You like my work and efforts with [Bitcoin for Fairness](https://bffbtc.org) to foster Bitcoin adoption on the ground in the Global South? It's all community powered and funded by donations. Feel free to [support our campaign with a donation](https://anita.link/geyser), send sats to our lightning address bff@geyser.fund or send fiat money on [Patreon](https://patreon.com/anitaposch).
