user/pages/04.blog/articles-2024/240221-pod-174/240221-pod-174-accesstribe.md, before:

---
taxonomy:
    tags: [Blog, Show, Bitcoin in Africa, Learn Bitcoin]
routes:
    default: '/podcast-access-tribe'
date: 2024-02-21 18:00
dateformat: 'Y-m-d H:i'
summary: In this interview, I talk about my Bitcoin journey, my work in the Global South, my book, and membership platform.
thumbnail: _show-cover.jpeg
template: article 
---

# Podcast: On the Access Tribe Podcast

This is an interview with me, Anita Posch from the Access Tribe podcast. During this episode I'm talking about my Bitcoin journey, my work in the Global South, my book, and membership platform and I'm taking questions from the audience.

<iframe width="100%" height="112" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" style="width: 100%; height: 112px;  overflow: hidden;" src="https://btcpodcasting.com/@anitaposch/episodes/podcast-access-tribe/embed/dark"></iframe>

Access Tribe will inspire, educate, and connect you with other women in the Bitcoin world, accelerating your learning journey and opening the door of opportunity.

## BTC Podcasting
The Anita Posch Show is hosted on [BTC Podcasting](https://btcpodcasting.com/), a Bitcoin for Fairness project, where you can host your podcast for free and at the same time earn bitcoin. Prior solutions required that the host is running their own Lightning node, which is no easy task. At BTC Podcasting we’re working together with Alby to make earning bitcoin accessible for anyone.

## How to Listen to My Podcast
This is a [Value4Value](https://value4value.info/) bitcoin enabled podcast. This means you can use a lightning wallet like Breez on your phone and send some satoshis to me while listening to the episode. I’m adding images and links to the episode chapters, you can see them on [the Breez app](https://breez.technology/), too. It’s a podcast app and a non-custodial bitcoin wallet, with a lightning node running on your phone! (available for Android and iOS)

Search for The Anita Posch Show inside the podcast app or add the RSS feed directly and subscribe to my show. The URL for the [RSS Feed](https://btcpodcasting.com/@anitaposch/feed.xml) is [https://btcpodcasting.com/@anitaposch/feed.xml](https://btcpodcasting.com/@anitaposch/feed.xml).

---

You like my work and efforts with [Bitcoin for Fairness](https://bffbtc.org/) to foster Bitcoin adoption on the ground in the Global South? It’s all community powered and funded by donations. Feel free to [support our campaign with a donation](https://geyser.fund/project/bff), send sats to our lightning address [bff@geyser.fund](bff@geyser.fund) or send fiat money on [Patreon](https://patreon.com/anitaposch).

Commit message:

Adding latest blogposts, imporve converter, add title to frontmatter for search results.

user/pages/04.blog/articles-2024/240221-pod-174/240221-pod-174-accesstribe.md, after:

---
title: Podcast: On the Access Tribe Podcast
taxonomy:
    tags: [Blog, Show, Bitcoin in Africa, Learn Bitcoin]
routes:
    default: '/podcast-access-tribe'
date: 2024-02-21 18:00
dateformat: 'Y-m-d H:i'
summary: In this interview, I talk about my Bitcoin journey, my work in the Global South, my book, and membership platform.
thumbnail: _show-cover.jpeg
template: article
---

# Podcast: On the Access Tribe Podcast

This is an interview with me, Anita Posch from the Access Tribe podcast. During this episode I'm talking about my Bitcoin journey, my work in the Global South, my book, and membership platform and I'm taking questions from the audience.

<iframe width="100%" height="112" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" style="width: 100%; height: 112px;  overflow: hidden;" src="https://btcpodcasting.com/@anitaposch/episodes/podcast-access-tribe/embed/dark"></iframe>

Access Tribe will inspire, educate, and connect you with other women in the Bitcoin world, accelerating your learning journey and opening the door of opportunity.

## BTC Podcasting
The Anita Posch Show is hosted on [BTC Podcasting](https://btcpodcasting.com/), a Bitcoin for Fairness project, where you can host your podcast for free and at the same time earn bitcoin. Prior solutions required that the host is running their own Lightning node, which is no easy task. At BTC Podcasting we’re working together with Alby to make earning bitcoin accessible for anyone.

## How to Listen to My Podcast
This is a [Value4Value](https://value4value.info/) bitcoin enabled podcast. This means you can use a lightning wallet like Breez on your phone and send some satoshis to me while listening to the episode. I’m adding images and links to the episode chapters, you can see them on [the Breez app](https://breez.technology/), too. It’s a podcast app and a non-custodial bitcoin wallet, with a lightning node running on your phone! (available for Android and iOS)

Search for The Anita Posch Show inside the podcast app or add the RSS feed directly and subscribe to my show. The URL for the [RSS Feed](https://btcpodcasting.com/@anitaposch/feed.xml) is [https://btcpodcasting.com/@anitaposch/feed.xml](https://btcpodcasting.com/@anitaposch/feed.xml).

---

You like my work and efforts with [Bitcoin for Fairness](https://bffbtc.org/) to foster Bitcoin adoption on the ground in the Global South? It’s all community powered and funded by donations. Feel free to [support our campaign with a donation](https://geyser.fund/project/bff), send sats to our lightning address [bff@geyser.fund](bff@geyser.fund) or send fiat money on [Patreon](https://patreon.com/anitaposch).
