user/pages/04.blog/articles-2024/240402-pod-177/240402-pod-177.md, before:

---
taxonomy:
    tags: [Blog, Show, Bitcoin in Africa, Learn Bitcoin]
routes:
    default: '/podcast-picknpay'
date: 2024-04-02 18:00
dateformat: 'Y-m-d H:i'
summary: I interviewed Carel van Wyk about why spending Bitcon is important in many African countries and how he implemented Bitcoin Lightning payments at PicknPay, South Africa’s largest retailer.
thumbnail: /assets/_show-cover.jpeg
template: article 
---

# Podcast: Spending Bitcoin Is Important with Carel van Wyk

I interviewed Carel van Wyk, a Bitcoin innovator who implemented Bitcoin Lightning payments at PicknPay, one of Africa's biggest retail chains. Get first hand insights into the challenges and successes along the journey. Delve into discussions about Bitcoin's major use cases, how it's transforming everyday transactions in Africa's complex regulatory environment, and about the future of Bitcoin.

<iframe width="100%" height="112" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" style="width: 100%; height: 112px;  overflow: hidden;" src="https://btcpodcasting.com/@anitaposch/episodes/spending-bitcoin-important-carel-van-wyk/embed/dark"></iframe>

## How to Listen to My Podcast
This is a [Value4Value](https://value4value.info/) bitcoin enabled podcast. This means you can use a lightning wallet like Breez or the Fountain app and send some satoshis to me while listening to the episode. 

Search for The Anita Posch Show inside your podcast app or add the RSS feed directly and subscribe to my show. The URL for the [RSS Feed](https://btcpodcasting.com/@anitaposch/feed.xml) is [https://btcpodcasting.com/@anitaposch/feed.xml](https://btcpodcasting.com/@anitaposch/feed.xml).

## Do you want to learn more about Bitcoin? 

> * Subscribe to my weekly newsletter: [The Orange Journal](https://anita.link/news)
> * Join my Bitcoin learning platform [Crack The Orange](https://cracktheorange.com) and I'll give you all the tools and knowledge you need to use Bitcoin in a secure way.
> * Read my book [(L)EARN BITCOIN](https://learnbitcoin.link/)

Commit message:

Adding latest blogposts, imporve converter, add title to frontmatter for search results.

user/pages/04.blog/articles-2024/240402-pod-177/240402-pod-177.md, after:

---
title: Podcast: Spending Bitcoin Is Important with Carel van Wyk
taxonomy:
    tags: [Blog, Show, Bitcoin in Africa, Learn Bitcoin]
routes:
    default: '/podcast-picknpay'
date: 2024-04-02 18:00
dateformat: 'Y-m-d H:i'
summary: I interviewed Carel van Wyk about why spending Bitcon is important in many African countries and how he implemented Bitcoin Lightning payments at PicknPay, South Africa’s largest retailer.
thumbnail: /assets/_show-cover.jpeg
template: article
---

# Podcast: Spending Bitcoin Is Important with Carel van Wyk

I interviewed Carel van Wyk, a Bitcoin innovator who implemented Bitcoin Lightning payments at PicknPay, one of Africa's biggest retail chains. Get first hand insights into the challenges and successes along the journey. Delve into discussions about Bitcoin's major use cases, how it's transforming everyday transactions in Africa's complex regulatory environment, and about the future of Bitcoin.

<iframe width="100%" height="112" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" style="width: 100%; height: 112px;  overflow: hidden;" src="https://btcpodcasting.com/@anitaposch/episodes/spending-bitcoin-important-carel-van-wyk/embed/dark"></iframe>

## How to Listen to My Podcast
This is a [Value4Value](https://value4value.info/) bitcoin enabled podcast. This means you can use a lightning wallet like Breez or the Fountain app and send some satoshis to me while listening to the episode. 

Search for The Anita Posch Show inside your podcast app or add the RSS feed directly and subscribe to my show. The URL for the [RSS Feed](https://btcpodcasting.com/@anitaposch/feed.xml) is [https://btcpodcasting.com/@anitaposch/feed.xml](https://btcpodcasting.com/@anitaposch/feed.xml).

## Do you want to learn more about Bitcoin? 

> * Subscribe to my weekly newsletter: [The Orange Journal](https://anita.link/news)
> * Join my Bitcoin learning platform [Crack The Orange](https://cracktheorange.com) and I'll give you all the tools and knowledge you need to use Bitcoin in a secure way.
> * Read my book [(L)EARN BITCOIN](https://learnbitcoin.link/)
