---
title: What I'm doing now - August 2025
taxonomy:
    tags: [Blog, Now]
routes:
    default: '/250807-now'
date: 2025-08-07 14:40
dateformat: 'Y-m-d H:i'
summary: Spending more time in one place
thumbnail: _Anita-Posch-Show-Cover-700.png
template: article
---

# What I'm doing now - August 2025

## Spending more time in one place 

After more than three years without my own apartment, always on the road and never longer in a place than two months, I feel the need to settle down. It's not coming along easy as one reason for my extended traveling was to find out where I felt home and wanted to stay. It feels as if I still haven't found that place. My strategy now is to find a place close to my friends and as close as it gets to nature and my ideas of how I want to live. I still want to extend my travels, but with a permanent homebase.

In June I had to undergo surgery on my right hand and I am still not able to do my ususal cycling. As alternative I went for some runs as I wanted to loose some weight additionally to my strength routine. Hill sprints worked well until they didn't and I hurt my left knee. This forced pause gives me time to search for an apartment or house. For the first time in 10 years I am owning a car, ironically a FIAT, to do my house hunting on the Austrian countryside. 

In July I published an article titled [Copycats and Builders: Bitcoin Adoption in Africa And What Must Change](https://bitcoinmagazine.com/culture/africa-real-challenge-bitcoin-adoption) about my experiences and learnings from five years of on the ground Bitcoin education in Africa in Bitcoin Magazine.

My new website went finally online after working on it for almost two years. On and off, because due to my tight schedule and the high number of 240 articles I was never able to complete the work in one go. 

We admitted around 30 new scholars from different African countries to our Bitcoin for Fairness online learning program [Crack the Orange](https://my.cracktheorange.com/scholarship) and I have been constantly working on content and mentoring our partner intiatives.

[<< previous](/250506-now)

<small>This is [a now page](https://nownownow.com/about), and if you have your own site, [you should make one](https://nownownow.com/about), too.</small>