---
title: What I'm doing now - October 2025
taxonomy:
    tags: [Blog, Now]
routes:
    default: '/251017-now'
date: 2025-10-17 14:40
dateformat: 'Y-m-d H:i'
summary: Planning Work and Travels In Africa
thumbnail: _Anita-Posch-Show-Cover-700.png
template: article
---

# What I'm doing now - October 2025

## Planning Travels 

I haven't found a permanent home yet, but something more flexible that is a serviced apartment which I can rent for a couple of months, pause and travel, and rent again. The apartment complex offers a small gym and a sauna, which I appreciate very much. It's great for the time being. 

I am planning my travels with Bitcoin for Fairness, which will start in December. I will be speaking at the fourth edition of the Africa Bitcoin conference in Port Louis, Mauritius. Never been on Mauritius will be interesting to see, I was told it's a different kind of "Africa feeling" there. After that I might be heading to Portugal and Madeira to spent January, but I haven't made any plans yet. In January I am heading to Cape Town to do a keynote at the Adopting Bitcoin conference. South Africa is in my experience the country with one of the most opportunities to use bitcoin as money next to Kenya where you can spend everywhere through the Tando app. 

After that we will be traveling to Zimbabwe, Zambia and Mozambique to visit and support local communities. We are working on the educational program which will include topics as digital security, privacy and Bitcoin and are raising funds right now. If you want to [support the mission of Bitcoin for Fairness feel free to donate](https://bffbtc.org/donate).

My right hand is finally almost 100% good after my carpal tunnel surgery. 

Our Bitcoin for Fairness online learning program [Crack the Orange](https://my.cracktheorange.com/scholarship) is seeing an influx of new students from Nigeria, Malawi, Kenya and Mozambique.

[<< previous](/250807-now)

<small>This is [a now page](https://nownownow.com/about), and if you have your own site, [you should make one](https://nownownow.com/about), too.</small>