user/pages/04.blog/articles-2022/221217-BFF-Meetup-Zambia/221217-BFF-Meetup-Zambia.md, before:

---
taxonomy:
    tags: [Blog, Ghana, Bitcoin in Africa]
routes:
    default: '/BFF-meetup-zambia-5'
date: 2022-12-17 20:12
dateformat: 'Y-m-d H:i'
summary: The Bitcoin for Fairness team Zambia hosted the 5th meetup in the capital Lusaka last weekend.
thumbnail: _221217-BFF-Meetup-Zambia-1671692416889.jpeg
template: article 
---

# 5th Bitcoin for Fairness Meetup in Lusaka, Zambia

Bitcoin for Fairness (BFF) held its final Bitcoin Meetup in Zambia for 2022. The Bitcoin-only meetup took place on December 17, 2022, at Scallywags Restaurant (BTC accepted) in Lusaka, Zambia’s capital.

![](_221217-BFF-Meetup-Zambia-1671692369687.jpeg)

Instead of the usual structured meetup, this time the team set up informal, participant-driven discussions. A range of topics were discussed, including hardware wallets, self-custody, seedphrase, etc. One of the participants, Emmanuel, demonstrated how Wasabi wallet works, what Coinjoins are and why they are important.

![](_221217-BFF-Meetup-Zambia-1671692416889.jpeg)

At the end of the meetup, BFF donated Trezor hardware wallets to participants.

---
You like my work and efforts with [Bitcoin for Fairness](https://bffbtc.org) to foster Bitcoin adoption on the ground in the Global South? It's all community powered and funded by donations. Feel free to [support our campaign with a donation](https://anita.link/geyser), send sats to our lightning address bff@geyser.fund or send fiat money on [Patreon](https://patreon.com/anitaposch).

Commit message:

Adding latest blogposts, imporve converter, add title to frontmatter for search results.

user/pages/04.blog/articles-2022/221217-BFF-Meetup-Zambia/221217-BFF-Meetup-Zambia.md, after:

---
title: 5th Bitcoin for Fairness Meetup in Lusaka, Zambia
taxonomy:
    tags: [Blog, Ghana, Bitcoin in Africa]
routes:
    default: '/BFF-meetup-zambia-5'
date: 2022-12-17 20:12
dateformat: 'Y-m-d H:i'
summary: The Bitcoin for Fairness team Zambia hosted the 5th meetup in the capital Lusaka last weekend.
thumbnail: _221217-BFF-Meetup-Zambia-1671692416889.jpeg
template: article
---


# 5th Bitcoin for Fairness Meetup in Lusaka, Zambia

Bitcoin for Fairness (BFF) held its final Bitcoin Meetup in Zambia for 2022. The Bitcoin-only meetup took place on December 17, 2022, at Scallywags Restaurant (BTC accepted) in Lusaka, Zambia’s capital.

![](_221217-BFF-Meetup-Zambia-1671692369687.jpeg)

Instead of the usual structured meetup, this time the team set up informal, participant-driven discussions. A range of topics were discussed, including hardware wallets, self-custody, seedphrase, etc. One of the participants, Emmanuel, demonstrated how Wasabi wallet works, what Coinjoins are and why they are important.

![](_221217-BFF-Meetup-Zambia-1671692416889.jpeg)

At the end of the meetup, BFF donated Trezor hardware wallets to participants.

---
You like my work and efforts with [Bitcoin for Fairness](https://bffbtc.org) to foster Bitcoin adoption on the ground in the Global South? It's all community powered and funded by donations. Feel free to [support our campaign with a donation](https://anita.link/geyser), send sats to our lightning address bff@geyser.fund or send fiat money on [Patreon](https://patreon.com/anitaposch).
