user/pages/04.blog/articles-2022/221205-worst-currencies/Steve-Hanke-watchlist.md, before:

---
taxonomy:
    tags: [Blog, Ghana, Zimbabwe, Bitcoin in Africa, Inflation]
routes:
    default: '/worst-currencies-nov22'
date: 2022-12-04 09:40
dateformat: 'Y-m-d H:i'
summary: The worst performing fiat currencies globally in November 2022 are....
thumbnail: _Hankes-watchlist-Nov22.png
template: article 
---

# Countries where people suffer the most from currency depreciation

## Ghanaian Cedi the fourth worst performing currency

Ahead of this weeks AfroBitcoin conference in Ghana, Zimbabwe is still the country with the worst performing currency globally with a loss of 75% against the USD since Jan 1, 2022. Followed by Venezuela, Cuba and the Ghanaian cedi on Rank 4 with a depreciation of 57%.

![](_Hankes-watchlist-Nov22.png)
[Source](https://twitter.com/steve_hanke/status/1598066843155017729)

The inflation dashboard shows a similar picture. Zimbabwe leads with an annual inflation of 400%. Ghana is on the 4th place as well with an annual inflation rate of 153%.

![](_Hankes-inflation-dashboard-Nov22.png)
[Source](https://twitter.com/steve_hanke/status/1598081942062174208/photo/1)

Inflation, corruption and authoritarianism go often hand in hand as laid out in my article [Opposing the Corruptible Fiat System, Bitcoin Enforces Universal Human Rights](https://anitaposch.com/bitcoin-enforces-human-rights).

---
You like my work and efforts with [Bitcoin for Fairness](https://bffbtc.org) to foster Bitcoin adoption on the ground in the Global South? It's all community powered and funded by donations. Feel free to [support our campaign with a donation](https://anita.link/geyser), send sats to our lightning address bff@geyser.fund or send fiat money on [Patreon](https://patreon.com/anitaposch).

Commit message:

Adding latest blogposts, imporve converter, add title to frontmatter for search results.

user/pages/04.blog/articles-2022/221205-worst-currencies/Steve-Hanke-watchlist.md, after:

---
title: Countries where people suffer the most from currency depreciation
taxonomy:
    tags: [Blog, Ghana, Zimbabwe, Bitcoin in Africa, Inflation]
routes:
    default: '/worst-currencies-nov22'
date: 2022-12-04 09:40
dateformat: 'Y-m-d H:i'
summary: The worst performing fiat currencies globally in November 2022 are....
thumbnail: _Hankes-watchlist-Nov22.png
template: article
---


# Countries where people suffer the most from currency depreciation

## Ghanaian Cedi the fourth worst performing currency

Ahead of this weeks AfroBitcoin conference in Ghana, Zimbabwe is still the country with the worst performing currency globally with a loss of 75% against the USD since Jan 1, 2022. Followed by Venezuela, Cuba and the Ghanaian cedi on Rank 4 with a depreciation of 57%.

![](_Hankes-watchlist-Nov22.png)
[Source](https://twitter.com/steve_hanke/status/1598066843155017729)

The inflation dashboard shows a similar picture. Zimbabwe leads with an annual inflation of 400%. Ghana is on the 4th place as well with an annual inflation rate of 153%.

![](_Hankes-inflation-dashboard-Nov22.png)
[Source](https://twitter.com/steve_hanke/status/1598081942062174208/photo/1)

Inflation, corruption and authoritarianism go often hand in hand as laid out in my article [Opposing the Corruptible Fiat System, Bitcoin Enforces Universal Human Rights](https://anitaposch.com/bitcoin-enforces-human-rights).

---
You like my work and efforts with [Bitcoin for Fairness](https://bffbtc.org) to foster Bitcoin adoption on the ground in the Global South? It's all community powered and funded by donations. Feel free to [support our campaign with a donation](https://anita.link/geyser), send sats to our lightning address bff@geyser.fund or send fiat money on [Patreon](https://patreon.com/anitaposch).
