user/pages/04.blog/articles-2023/230316-pod-170/pod-170.md, before:

---
taxonomy:
    tags: [Blog, Show, Human Rights]
routes:
    default: '/podcast-bitcoin-humanitarian-case-170'
date: 2023-03-26 19:55
dateformat: 'Y-m-d H:i'
summary: My second 10 minutes of arguments why Bitcoin is important for the world and especially for the Global South.
thumbnail: _show-cover.jpeg
template: article 
---

# Podcast: The Humanitarian Case for Bitcoin, Pt. 2

The second part of my arguments why Bitcoin is important for the world and especially for the Global South.

<iframe width="100%" height="112" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" style="width: 100%; height: 112px;  overflow: hidden;" src="https://btcpodcasting.com/@anitaposch/episodes/the-humanitarian-case-for-bitcoin-pt-2/embed/dark"></iframe>

The Anita Posch Show is hosted on [BTC Podcasting](https://btcpodcasting.com), a Bitcoin for Fairness project, where you can host your podcast for free and at the same time earn bitcoin. Prior solutions required that the host is running their own Lightning node, which is no easy task. At BTC Podcasting we’re working together with Alby to make earning bitcoin accessible for anyone.

### How to listen to my podcast

This is a [Value4Value](https://value4value.info) bitcoin enabled podcast. This means you can use a lightning wallet like Breez on your phone and send some satoshis to me while listening to the episode. I'm adding images and links to the episode chapters, you can see them on [the Breez app](https://breez.technology), too. It's a podcast app and a non-custodial bitcoin wallet, with a lightning node running on your phone! (available for Android and iOS)

Search for The Anita Posch Show inside the podcast app or add the RSS feed directly and subscribe to my show. The URL for the [RSS Feed](https://btcpodcasting.com/@anitaposch/feed.xml) is https://btcpodcasting.com/@anitaposch/feed.xml. 

---
You like my work and efforts with [Bitcoin for Fairness](https://bffbtc.org) to foster Bitcoin adoption on the ground in the Global South? It's all community powered and funded by donations. Feel free to [support our campaign with a donation](https://anita.link/geyser), send sats to our lightning address bff@geyser.fund or send fiat money on [Patreon](https://patreon.com/anitaposch).

Commit message:

Adding latest blogposts, imporve converter, add title to frontmatter for search results.

user/pages/04.blog/articles-2023/230316-pod-170/pod-170.md, after:

---
title: Podcast: The Humanitarian Case for Bitcoin, Pt. 2
taxonomy:
    tags: [Blog, Show, Human Rights]
routes:
    default: '/podcast-bitcoin-humanitarian-case-170'
date: 2023-03-26 19:55
dateformat: 'Y-m-d H:i'
summary: My second 10 minutes of arguments why Bitcoin is important for the world and especially for the Global South.
thumbnail: _show-cover.jpeg
template: article
---

# Podcast: The Humanitarian Case for Bitcoin, Pt. 2

The second part of my arguments why Bitcoin is important for the world and especially for the Global South.

<iframe width="100%" height="112" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" style="width: 100%; height: 112px;  overflow: hidden;" src="https://btcpodcasting.com/@anitaposch/episodes/the-humanitarian-case-for-bitcoin-pt-2/embed/dark"></iframe>

The Anita Posch Show is hosted on [BTC Podcasting](https://btcpodcasting.com), a Bitcoin for Fairness project, where you can host your podcast for free and at the same time earn bitcoin. Prior solutions required that the host is running their own Lightning node, which is no easy task. At BTC Podcasting we’re working together with Alby to make earning bitcoin accessible for anyone.

### How to listen to my podcast

This is a [Value4Value](https://value4value.info) bitcoin enabled podcast. This means you can use a lightning wallet like Breez on your phone and send some satoshis to me while listening to the episode. I'm adding images and links to the episode chapters, you can see them on [the Breez app](https://breez.technology), too. It's a podcast app and a non-custodial bitcoin wallet, with a lightning node running on your phone! (available for Android and iOS)

Search for The Anita Posch Show inside the podcast app or add the RSS feed directly and subscribe to my show. The URL for the [RSS Feed](https://btcpodcasting.com/@anitaposch/feed.xml) is https://btcpodcasting.com/@anitaposch/feed.xml. 

---
You like my work and efforts with [Bitcoin for Fairness](https://bffbtc.org) to foster Bitcoin adoption on the ground in the Global South? It's all community powered and funded by donations. Feel free to [support our campaign with a donation](https://anita.link/geyser), send sats to our lightning address bff@geyser.fund or send fiat money on [Patreon](https://patreon.com/anitaposch).
