user/pages/04.blog/articles-2023/230815-Laura-Shin-Unchained-2023/Anita-Posch-on-Laura-Shin-Unchained-2023.md, before:

---
taxonomy:
    tags: [Blog, Features, Bitcoin in Africa]
routes:
    default: '/guest-laura-shin-unchained'
date: 2023-08-15 8:00
dateformat: 'Y-m-d H:i'
summary: Guest at Laura Shin's Unchained podcast: Why ‘Bitcoin Is a Tool for Freedom’ – Especially in Africa.
thumbnail: _Laura-Shin-Anita-Posch.jpeg
template: article 
---

# Why ‘Bitcoin Is a Tool for Freedom’ - Especially in Africa: Guest at Laura Shin's Unchained Podcast

Educator Anita Posch has spent months on the ground in Africa onboarding new users into the world of Bitcoin. In the West, bitcoin may seem extraneous; but in her telling, bitcoin in Zimbabwe, Zambia, and other African countries is essential. “Bitcoin can be one of the solutions for people who are disempowered, who are outlawed, the misfits,” says Posch. “Bitcoin is for them because no one can take it away from you.”

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/R1IV91XNYxU?si=EeMUhaNsp_inwq3J" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Commit message:

Adding latest blogposts, imporve converter, add title to frontmatter for search results.

user/pages/04.blog/articles-2023/230815-Laura-Shin-Unchained-2023/Anita-Posch-on-Laura-Shin-Unchained-2023.md, after:

---
title: Why ‘Bitcoin Is a Tool for Freedom’ - Especially in Africa: Guest at Laura Shin's Unchained Podcast
taxonomy:
    tags: [Blog, Features, Bitcoin in Africa]
routes:
    default: '/guest-laura-shin-unchained'
date: 2023-08-15 8:00
dateformat: 'Y-m-d H:i'
summary: Guest at Laura Shin's Unchained podcast: Why ‘Bitcoin Is a Tool for Freedom’ – Especially in Africa.
thumbnail: _Laura-Shin-Anita-Posch.jpeg
template: article
---

# Why ‘Bitcoin Is a Tool for Freedom’ - Especially in Africa: Guest at Laura Shin's Unchained Podcast

Educator Anita Posch has spent months on the ground in Africa onboarding new users into the world of Bitcoin. In the West, bitcoin may seem extraneous; but in her telling, bitcoin in Zimbabwe, Zambia, and other African countries is essential. “Bitcoin can be one of the solutions for people who are disempowered, who are outlawed, the misfits,” says Posch. “Bitcoin is for them because no one can take it away from you.”

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/R1IV91XNYxU?si=EeMUhaNsp_inwq3J" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>
