user/pages/04.blog/articles-2022/2022-10-13-pod/2022-10-13-pod-163.md, before:

---
taxonomy:
    tags: [Blog, Show, Bitcoin in Africa]
routes:
    default: '/bitcoin-insights-africa'
date: 2022-10-13 13:30
dateformat: 'Y-m-d H:i'
summary: New podcast episode 163: Interview with a Bitcoin enthusiast from Africa. Lots of insights on trading volume, regulation, use-cases and the answer to do people use Bitcoin or stablecoins?
thumbnail: ../../assets/_Anita-Posch-Show-Cover-700.png
template: article 
---

# Podcast: Insights from an African Bitcoin Enthusiast

I'm speaking with Joseph a Bitcoin enthusiast from Africa. Because of his long time interest in Bitcoin he has a lot of experience on how cryptocurrencies are being used within the continent. He has been traveling a lot and as a business owner himself he has made connections with Bitcoin traders and convicted holders. I invited him to get more insights on how cryptocurrency adoption will gain momentum in Africa.

Listen on: [Apple Podcast](https://podcasts.apple.com/at/podcast/bitcoin-co/id1432576313) | [Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/show/0EJu3cMWF0AMxeO8NMH71z) | [Google Podcast](https://podcasts.google.com/?feed=aHR0cHM6Ly9iaXRjb2ludW5kY28uY29tL2VuL2ZlZWQvbXAzLw) | [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL2zepPkogWotoUrb4T2XjLHa3SGHT5IX-) | [Pocket Casts](https://pca.st/YYPf) | [Castbox](https://castbox.fm/channel/id1484185) | [Stitcher](https://www.stitcher.com/podcast/anita-posch/bitcoin-co) | [TuneIn](https://tunein.com/podcasts/Business--Economics-Podcasts/Bitcoin--Co-p1189680/) | [RSS Feed](https://bitcoinundco.com/en/feed/mp3/)

<iframe title="Podlove Web Player: The Anita Posch Show: A Bitcoin only podcast - Insights from a Bitcoin Enthusiast in Africa" width="375" height="400" src="https://cdn.podlove.org/web-player/share.html?episode=https%3A%2F%2Fbitcoinundco.com%2Fen%2F%3Fpodlove_player4%3D1629" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" tabindex="0"></iframe>



---
You like my work and efforts with [Bitcoin for Fairness](https://bffbtc.org) to foster Bitcoin adoption on the ground in the Global South? It's all community powered and funded by donations. Feel free to [support our campaign with a donation](https://anita.link/geyser), send sats to our lightning address bff@geyser.fund or send fiat money on [Patreon](https://patreon.com/anitaposch).

Commit message:

Adding latest blogposts, imporve converter, add title to frontmatter for search results.

user/pages/04.blog/articles-2022/2022-10-13-pod/2022-10-13-pod-163.md, after:

---
title: Podcast: Insights from an African Bitcoin Enthusiast
taxonomy:
    tags: [Blog, Show, Bitcoin in Africa]
routes:
    default: '/bitcoin-insights-africa'
date: 2022-10-13 13:30
dateformat: 'Y-m-d H:i'
summary: New podcast episode 163: Interview with a Bitcoin enthusiast from Africa. Lots of insights on trading volume, regulation, use-cases and the answer to do people use Bitcoin or stablecoins?
thumbnail: ../../assets/_Anita-Posch-Show-Cover-700.png
template: article
---

# Podcast: Insights from an African Bitcoin Enthusiast

I'm speaking with Joseph a Bitcoin enthusiast from Africa. Because of his long time interest in Bitcoin he has a lot of experience on how cryptocurrencies are being used within the continent. He has been traveling a lot and as a business owner himself he has made connections with Bitcoin traders and convicted holders. I invited him to get more insights on how cryptocurrency adoption will gain momentum in Africa.

Listen on: [Apple Podcast](https://podcasts.apple.com/at/podcast/bitcoin-co/id1432576313) | [Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/show/0EJu3cMWF0AMxeO8NMH71z) | [Google Podcast](https://podcasts.google.com/?feed=aHR0cHM6Ly9iaXRjb2ludW5kY28uY29tL2VuL2ZlZWQvbXAzLw) | [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL2zepPkogWotoUrb4T2XjLHa3SGHT5IX-) | [Pocket Casts](https://pca.st/YYPf) | [Castbox](https://castbox.fm/channel/id1484185) | [Stitcher](https://www.stitcher.com/podcast/anita-posch/bitcoin-co) | [TuneIn](https://tunein.com/podcasts/Business--Economics-Podcasts/Bitcoin--Co-p1189680/) | [RSS Feed](https://bitcoinundco.com/en/feed/mp3/)

<iframe title="Podlove Web Player: The Anita Posch Show: A Bitcoin only podcast - Insights from a Bitcoin Enthusiast in Africa" width="375" height="400" src="https://cdn.podlove.org/web-player/share.html?episode=https%3A%2F%2Fbitcoinundco.com%2Fen%2F%3Fpodlove_player4%3D1629" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" tabindex="0"></iframe>



---
You like my work and efforts with [Bitcoin for Fairness](https://bffbtc.org) to foster Bitcoin adoption on the ground in the Global South? It's all community powered and funded by donations. Feel free to [support our campaign with a donation](https://anita.link/geyser), send sats to our lightning address bff@geyser.fund or send fiat money on [Patreon](https://patreon.com/anitaposch).
