user/pages/04.blog/articles-2022/221026-ard-betastories/221026-betastories.md, before:

---
taxonomy:
    tags: [Blog, Features, South Africa, Deutsch]
routes:
    default: '/ard-betastories'
date: 2022-10-26 13:30
dateformat: 'Y-m-d H:i'
summary: German TV ARD published a Bitcoin documentary and followed me to South Africa where I worked with Bitcoin Ekasi in May 2022.
thumbnail: _221026-betastories-anita-posch.jpg
template: article 
---

# Bitcoin documentary with Anita Posch on German TV

German TV stations ARD and BR published a Bitcoin documentary for which they followed me to South Africa where I worked with Bitcoin Ekasi in May 2022. The Bitcoin township is an example that Bitcoin can be used by anyone even people in less privileged circumstances.

Overall I find the documentary very well done. There are some things factually wrong like when "Tante" is speaking about the CO2 emissions that a single transaction is emitting. It's faulty mathematics. The use of energy for bitcoin does not scale to the number of transactions. The number of transactions that happen on-chain and the number of transactions that happen off-chain - for instance, on second-layer technologies like the Lightning Network or through custodial exchanges that batch transactions - are not correlated to the cost of mining. I dedicated a whole chapter of my [book to the question of Bitcoin’s ecological footprint](https://learnbitcoin.link).

Other outcomes of this journey are:   
* I brought a [raspiblitz](https://twitter.com/raspiblitz) which is connecting [BitcoinEkasi](https://twitter.com/BitcoinEkasi) with the Lightning and Bitcoin network. As they can verify their own transactions with the node, they are their own bank now.
* we set up [Trezor hardware wallets](https://trezor.com) which are securing the shop owners bitcoin   
* Peer-to-Peer Bitcoin exchange [Paxful](https://paxful.com) opened an education center in the township

Here you can watch the documentary in German (until 25 October 2027):
[![](_221026-betastories-anita-posch.jpg)](https://www.ardmediathek.de/video/beta-stories-schoene-neue-kryptowelt/folge-1-bitcoin-die-grosse-verheissung-s01-e01/br-fernsehen/Y3JpZDovL2JyLmRlL3ZpZGVvLzBlOTdjYzQ2LTI4MGMtNDlhZC1iMTkwLWNiY2FiNDcyNTRjOA)

---
You like my work and efforts with [Bitcoin for Fairness](https://bffbtc.org) to foster Bitcoin adoption on the ground in the Global South? It's all community powered and funded by donations. Feel free to [support our campaign with a donation](https://anita.link/geyser), send sats to our lightning address bff@geyser.fund or send fiat money on [Patreon](https://patreon.com/anitaposch).

Commit message:

Adding latest blogposts, imporve converter, add title to frontmatter for search results.

user/pages/04.blog/articles-2022/221026-ard-betastories/221026-betastories.md, after:

---
title: Bitcoin documentary with Anita Posch on German TV
taxonomy:
    tags: [Blog, Features, South Africa, Deutsch]
routes:
    default: '/ard-betastories'
date: 2022-10-26 13:30
dateformat: 'Y-m-d H:i'
summary: German TV ARD published a Bitcoin documentary and followed me to South Africa where I worked with Bitcoin Ekasi in May 2022.
thumbnail: _221026-betastories-anita-posch.jpg
template: article
---

# Bitcoin documentary with Anita Posch on German TV

German TV stations ARD and BR published a Bitcoin documentary for which they followed me to South Africa where I worked with Bitcoin Ekasi in May 2022. The Bitcoin township is an example that Bitcoin can be used by anyone even people in less privileged circumstances.

Overall I find the documentary very well done. There are some things factually wrong like when "Tante" is speaking about the CO2 emissions that a single transaction is emitting. It's faulty mathematics. The use of energy for bitcoin does not scale to the number of transactions. The number of transactions that happen on-chain and the number of transactions that happen off-chain - for instance, on second-layer technologies like the Lightning Network or through custodial exchanges that batch transactions - are not correlated to the cost of mining. I dedicated a whole chapter of my [book to the question of Bitcoin’s ecological footprint](https://learnbitcoin.link).

Other outcomes of this journey are:   
* I brought a [raspiblitz](https://twitter.com/raspiblitz) which is connecting [BitcoinEkasi](https://twitter.com/BitcoinEkasi) with the Lightning and Bitcoin network. As they can verify their own transactions with the node, they are their own bank now.
* we set up [Trezor hardware wallets](https://trezor.com) which are securing the shop owners bitcoin   
* Peer-to-Peer Bitcoin exchange [Paxful](https://paxful.com) opened an education center in the township

Here you can watch the documentary in German (until 25 October 2027):
[![](_221026-betastories-anita-posch.jpg)](https://www.ardmediathek.de/video/beta-stories-schoene-neue-kryptowelt/folge-1-bitcoin-die-grosse-verheissung-s01-e01/br-fernsehen/Y3JpZDovL2JyLmRlL3ZpZGVvLzBlOTdjYzQ2LTI4MGMtNDlhZC1iMTkwLWNiY2FiNDcyNTRjOA)

---
You like my work and efforts with [Bitcoin for Fairness](https://bffbtc.org) to foster Bitcoin adoption on the ground in the Global South? It's all community powered and funded by donations. Feel free to [support our campaign with a donation](https://anita.link/geyser), send sats to our lightning address bff@geyser.fund or send fiat money on [Patreon](https://patreon.com/anitaposch).
