user/pages/04.blog/articles-2023/230129-Zambia-node/230129-Zambia-Node.md, before:

---
taxonomy:
    tags: [Blog, Zambia, Bitcoin in Africa]
routes:
    default: '/zambia-bitcoin-node'
date: 2023-01-29 12:40
dateformat: 'Y-m-d H:i'
summary: In January 2023 the first Bitcoin and Lightning node (what I know of) started running in Zambia. I brought a Bitcoin for Fairness community donated Raspiblitz device, when I was visiting Zambia in October 2022.
thumbnail: _230129-Zambia-Node-1675415448609.jpeg
template: article 
---

# First Bitcoin and Lightning node in Zambia

Light up Africa with nodes! There is a big and wide empty space on the map of Bitcoin nodes on the African continent. While a lot of nodes might be run behind Tor, which makes them undetectable for the map, in general there are not many nodes operated here. 

One of my objectives with [Bitcoin for Fairness](https://bffbtc.org/mission/) is to bring Bitcoin infrastructure to emerging countries in order to give local communities the opportunity to be a part of the Bitcoin network. In May 2022, Bitcoin for Fairness [donated](https://bffbtc.org/lightning-node-south-africa/) a Bitcoin and Lightning Node to [Bitcoin Ekasi](https://anita.link/154) in South Africa.

![Map of reachable Bitcoin nodes on Bitnodes.io](_230129-Zambia-Node-1675416808088.jpeg)

![BFF Zambia node current state, source: amboss](_230129-Zambia-Node-1675416060517.jpeg)

Commit message:

Adding latest blogposts, imporve converter, add title to frontmatter for search results.

user/pages/04.blog/articles-2023/230129-Zambia-node/230129-Zambia-Node.md, after:

---
title: First Bitcoin and Lightning node in Zambia
taxonomy:
    tags: [Blog, Zambia, Bitcoin in Africa]
routes:
    default: '/zambia-bitcoin-node'
date: 2023-01-29 12:40
dateformat: 'Y-m-d H:i'
summary: In January 2023 the first Bitcoin and Lightning node (what I know of) started running in Zambia. I brought a Bitcoin for Fairness community donated Raspiblitz device, when I was visiting Zambia in October 2022.
thumbnail: _230129-Zambia-Node-1675415448609.jpeg
template: article
---


# First Bitcoin and Lightning node in Zambia

Light up Africa with nodes! There is a big and wide empty space on the map of Bitcoin nodes on the African continent. While a lot of nodes might be run behind Tor, which makes them undetectable for the map, in general there are not many nodes operated here. 

One of my objectives with [Bitcoin for Fairness](https://bffbtc.org/mission/) is to bring Bitcoin infrastructure to emerging countries in order to give local communities the opportunity to be a part of the Bitcoin network. In May 2022, Bitcoin for Fairness [donated](https://bffbtc.org/lightning-node-south-africa/) a Bitcoin and Lightning Node to [Bitcoin Ekasi](https://anita.link/154) in South Africa.

![Map of reachable Bitcoin nodes on Bitnodes.io](_230129-Zambia-Node-1675416808088.jpeg)

![BFF Zambia node current state, source: amboss](_230129-Zambia-Node-1675416060517.jpeg)
