user/pages/04.blog/articles-2022/_221115-v4vpodcast/_2211...-how-to-setup-v4v-alby.md, before:

---
taxonomy:
    tags: [Blog, Podcasting 2.0, Zimbabwe, Earn bitcoin]
routes:
    default: '/icwt-btc-enabled'
date: 2022-11-10 11:30
dateformat: 'Y-m-d H:i'
summary: 
thumbnail: _Anita-Posch-Newsday-Zimbabwe.png
template: article 
---

# How to earn bitcoin with a podcast
In November 2020 [my podcast was one of the first eleven podcasts globally](bitcoin-podcast-enable-streaming-money) that was set up to receive Bitcoin payments in real-time over the Lightning network. Streaming money is a term coined by Andreas M. Antonopoulos in 2016, when he was speaking of the possibilities to earn bitcoin online through content creation. Back then it was an idea only, the realization demanded the development of the Lightning Network, which enables fast and cheap micro-payments, where money can be streamed without direct intervention of the user. 

![The first eleven podcasts that enabled value 4 value bitcoin payments, November 2020](../../assets/_14-the-first-podcasts-streaming-money.jpg)

Podcasting 2.0 is a movement initiated by Adam Curry, the "Podfather". The idea of Podcasting 2.0 is to keep podcasting an open and decentralized platform to spread ideas enabling creators all over the world to speak their minds without being locked in on centralized platforms like Spotify or Apple. 

Combining the opportunities of Bitcoin which can and should be self-custodied and doesn't need an intermediary with podcasting a technology based on RSS feeds which can be self-hosted without an intermediary between host and listener seems like a no-brainer. It took the development of the Lightning Network until it became possible to marry the two technologies in late 2019. Value 4 Value podcasting was born. Adam Curry and Dave Jones together with Paul Itoi and Sphinx where drivers of this innovation.

## Value 4 Value

What do these terms mean? The idea of Value 4 Value is that content is provided for free, but consumers have the option to give back. They can opt-in to pay an amount of their choice for the value they've received directly to the content creator. As soon as a podcast is [V4V enabled you can find it on the Podcastindex](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/value4value), which is a database of over 4 Million podcasts at the time of writing.

## Number of Value 4 Value Bitcoin enabled podcasts globally 

In only two years the [number of V4V enabled podcasts went from 11 to 9,970 in November 2022](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/value4value).

Now the first Zimbabwean podcast integrated bitcoin payments over the Lightning Network. After I was a guest at "In Conversation With Trevor" I offered my help to setup Trevor Ncube's podcast for V4V streaming. 

To enable streaming satoshis one needs to connect the podcast's RSS feed to a Lightning node. Since running a node is not very beginner friendly (yet) we were using Alby which is a service running Lightning nodes and offering them as a service to others.

First we set up an Alby account for Trevor Ncube and created a Lightning address "icwt@getalby.com". It looks like an email address, but it's not, one can send bitcoin to it. In the next step the "podcast:value tag" that you can find at https://getalby.com/node is needed. This code connects the RSS feed with the Alby Lighting node and enables the flow of bitcoin.

An example of a value tag (added .... for privacy reasons):
`<podcast:value type="lightning" method="keysend">
        <podcast:valueRecipient name="anita@getalby.com" type="node" address="030a5............57a4f1722677a3" customKey="696969" customValue="EciJ6T..........qS3gO" split="100"/>
      </podcast:value> `

Copy the code and add it into your RSS feed. Most podcasts also Trevor's are run on hosting platforms that don't allow to edit the RSS feed. This is why we were using a website called [podcasterwallet, which inserts the value tag into the feed without the need to touch the RSS file](https://podcasterwallet.com/). 

And that's it. Now you only need to tell your listeners that they should use an app like [Breez](https://breez.technology) or [Fountain](https://www.fountain.fm/) to listen to your podcast. As soon as they top it up with a little bit of bitcoin they can start showing the hosts the value they receive from their content. [In Conversation with Trevor is now Value 4 Value enabled](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/5784258)

---
You like my work and efforts with [Bitcoin for Fairness](https://bffbtc.org) to foster Bitcoin adoption on the ground in the Global South? It's all community powered and funded by donations. Feel free to [support our campaign with a donation](https://anita.link/geyser), send sats to our lightning address bff@geyser.fund or send fiat money on [Patreon](https://patreon.com/anitaposch).

Commit message:

Adding latest blogposts, imporve converter, add title to frontmatter for search results.

user/pages/04.blog/articles-2022/_221115-v4vpodcast/_2211...-how-to-setup-v4v-alby.md, after:

---
title: How to earn bitcoin with a podcast
taxonomy:
    tags: [Blog, Podcasting 2.0, Zimbabwe, Earn bitcoin]
routes:
    default: '/icwt-btc-enabled'
date: 2022-11-10 11:30
dateformat: 'Y-m-d H:i'
summary: 
thumbnail: _Anita-Posch-Newsday-Zimbabwe.png
template: article
---

# How to earn bitcoin with a podcast
In November 2020 [my podcast was one of the first eleven podcasts globally](bitcoin-podcast-enable-streaming-money) that was set up to receive Bitcoin payments in real-time over the Lightning network. Streaming money is a term coined by Andreas M. Antonopoulos in 2016, when he was speaking of the possibilities to earn bitcoin online through content creation. Back then it was an idea only, the realization demanded the development of the Lightning Network, which enables fast and cheap micro-payments, where money can be streamed without direct intervention of the user. 

![The first eleven podcasts that enabled value 4 value bitcoin payments, November 2020](../../assets/_14-the-first-podcasts-streaming-money.jpg)

Podcasting 2.0 is a movement initiated by Adam Curry, the "Podfather". The idea of Podcasting 2.0 is to keep podcasting an open and decentralized platform to spread ideas enabling creators all over the world to speak their minds without being locked in on centralized platforms like Spotify or Apple. 

Combining the opportunities of Bitcoin which can and should be self-custodied and doesn't need an intermediary with podcasting a technology based on RSS feeds which can be self-hosted without an intermediary between host and listener seems like a no-brainer. It took the development of the Lightning Network until it became possible to marry the two technologies in late 2019. Value 4 Value podcasting was born. Adam Curry and Dave Jones together with Paul Itoi and Sphinx where drivers of this innovation.

## Value 4 Value

What do these terms mean? The idea of Value 4 Value is that content is provided for free, but consumers have the option to give back. They can opt-in to pay an amount of their choice for the value they've received directly to the content creator. As soon as a podcast is [V4V enabled you can find it on the Podcastindex](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/value4value), which is a database of over 4 Million podcasts at the time of writing.

## Number of Value 4 Value Bitcoin enabled podcasts globally 

In only two years the [number of V4V enabled podcasts went from 11 to 9,970 in November 2022](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/value4value).

Now the first Zimbabwean podcast integrated bitcoin payments over the Lightning Network. After I was a guest at "In Conversation With Trevor" I offered my help to setup Trevor Ncube's podcast for V4V streaming. 

To enable streaming satoshis one needs to connect the podcast's RSS feed to a Lightning node. Since running a node is not very beginner friendly (yet) we were using Alby which is a service running Lightning nodes and offering them as a service to others.

First we set up an Alby account for Trevor Ncube and created a Lightning address "icwt@getalby.com". It looks like an email address, but it's not, one can send bitcoin to it. In the next step the "podcast:value tag" that you can find at https://getalby.com/node is needed. This code connects the RSS feed with the Alby Lighting node and enables the flow of bitcoin.

An example of a value tag (added .... for privacy reasons):
`<podcast:value type="lightning" method="keysend">
        <podcast:valueRecipient name="anita@getalby.com" type="node" address="030a5............57a4f1722677a3" customKey="696969" customValue="EciJ6T..........qS3gO" split="100"/>
      </podcast:value> `

Copy the code and add it into your RSS feed. Most podcasts also Trevor's are run on hosting platforms that don't allow to edit the RSS feed. This is why we were using a website called [podcasterwallet, which inserts the value tag into the feed without the need to touch the RSS file](https://podcasterwallet.com/). 

And that's it. Now you only need to tell your listeners that they should use an app like [Breez](https://breez.technology) or [Fountain](https://www.fountain.fm/) to listen to your podcast. As soon as they top it up with a little bit of bitcoin they can start showing the hosts the value they receive from their content. [In Conversation with Trevor is now Value 4 Value enabled](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/5784258)

---
You like my work and efforts with [Bitcoin for Fairness](https://bffbtc.org) to foster Bitcoin adoption on the ground in the Global South? It's all community powered and funded by donations. Feel free to [support our campaign with a donation](https://anita.link/geyser), send sats to our lightning address bff@geyser.fund or send fiat money on [Patreon](https://patreon.com/anitaposch).
