user/pages/04.blog/articles-2022/221212-BFF-Meetup-Accra/221212-BFF-Meetup-Ghana.md, before:

---
taxonomy:
    tags: [Blog, Ghana, Bitcoin in Africa]
routes:
    default: '/BFF-meetup-ghana'
date: 2022-12-12 12:12
dateformat: 'Y-m-d H:i'
summary: We hosted a Bitcoin meetup in Accra as the Bitcoin for Fairness closing event of a long week with lots of bitcoin education and events at the first pan-African Bitcoin conference.
thumbnail: _221212-group-Accra.jpg
template: article 
---

# Hosted a Bitcoin for Fairness Meetup in Accra, Ghana

We hosted a Bitcoin meetup in Accra as the Bitcoin for Fairness closing event of a long week with lots of bitcoin education and events at the first pan-African Bitcoin conference. Loved to see the curiosity and openness for solutions from all attendees.

![](_221212-meetup-accra.jpg)

We were discussing the use cases of bitcoin for their specific situations, installed the Blue Wallet and spoke about the importance of self-custody, which is provided if one uses the Breez App. Then we did some payments so that everyone sent and received some satoshis.

![](_221212-group-Accra.jpg)

One of the participants was asking me about hardware wallets and how to earn bitcoin through content creation. When I gifted him a Trezor he was super happy.
![](_221212-Trezor.jpg)

We gave away the [Bitcoin for Fairness Bitcoin flyer](https://bffbtc.org/flyer/), which will be available in the local Akan Twi language soon.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">1/14 Organized a <a href="https://twitter.com/BFFbtc?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@BFFbtc</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Bitcoin?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Bitcoin</a> meetup in <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Accra?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Accra</a> as the closing event of a long week with lots of bitcoin education and events <a href="https://twitter.com/AfroBitcoinOrg?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@AfroBitcoinOrg</a>. Loved to see the curiosity and openness for solutions from all attendees. <a href="https://t.co/pnG9QN2f7o">pic.twitter.com/pnG9QN2f7o</a></p>&mdash; Anita ⚡🏳️‍🌈 Bitcoin for Fairness (@AnitaPosch) <a href="https://twitter.com/AnitaPosch/status/1602331207651434496?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">December 12, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

We hosted the meetup at One Corner Garden, a restaurant which is accepting bitcoin.
![](_221212-BFF-Meetup-Ghana-1671190844704.jpeg)

---
You like my work and efforts with [Bitcoin for Fairness](https://bffbtc.org) to foster Bitcoin adoption on the ground in the Global South? It's all community powered and funded by donations. Feel free to [support our campaign with a donation](https://anita.link/geyser), send sats to our lightning address bff@geyser.fund or send fiat money on [Patreon](https://patreon.com/anitaposch).

Commit message:

Adding latest blogposts, imporve converter, add title to frontmatter for search results.

user/pages/04.blog/articles-2022/221212-BFF-Meetup-Accra/221212-BFF-Meetup-Ghana.md, after:

---
title: Hosted a Bitcoin for Fairness Meetup in Accra, Ghana
taxonomy:
    tags: [Blog, Ghana, Bitcoin in Africa]
routes:
    default: '/BFF-meetup-ghana'
date: 2022-12-12 12:12
dateformat: 'Y-m-d H:i'
summary: We hosted a Bitcoin meetup in Accra as the Bitcoin for Fairness closing event of a long week with lots of bitcoin education and events at the first pan-African Bitcoin conference.
thumbnail: _221212-group-Accra.jpg
template: article
---


# Hosted a Bitcoin for Fairness Meetup in Accra, Ghana

We hosted a Bitcoin meetup in Accra as the Bitcoin for Fairness closing event of a long week with lots of bitcoin education and events at the first pan-African Bitcoin conference. Loved to see the curiosity and openness for solutions from all attendees.

![](_221212-meetup-accra.jpg)

We were discussing the use cases of bitcoin for their specific situations, installed the Blue Wallet and spoke about the importance of self-custody, which is provided if one uses the Breez App. Then we did some payments so that everyone sent and received some satoshis.

![](_221212-group-Accra.jpg)

One of the participants was asking me about hardware wallets and how to earn bitcoin through content creation. When I gifted him a Trezor he was super happy.
![](_221212-Trezor.jpg)

We gave away the [Bitcoin for Fairness Bitcoin flyer](https://bffbtc.org/flyer/), which will be available in the local Akan Twi language soon.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">1/14 Organized a <a href="https://twitter.com/BFFbtc?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@BFFbtc</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Bitcoin?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Bitcoin</a> meetup in <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Accra?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Accra</a> as the closing event of a long week with lots of bitcoin education and events <a href="https://twitter.com/AfroBitcoinOrg?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@AfroBitcoinOrg</a>. Loved to see the curiosity and openness for solutions from all attendees. <a href="https://t.co/pnG9QN2f7o">pic.twitter.com/pnG9QN2f7o</a></p>&mdash; Anita ⚡🏳️‍🌈 Bitcoin for Fairness (@AnitaPosch) <a href="https://twitter.com/AnitaPosch/status/1602331207651434496?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">December 12, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

We hosted the meetup at One Corner Garden, a restaurant which is accepting bitcoin.
![](_221212-BFF-Meetup-Ghana-1671190844704.jpeg)

---
You like my work and efforts with [Bitcoin for Fairness](https://bffbtc.org) to foster Bitcoin adoption on the ground in the Global South? It's all community powered and funded by donations. Feel free to [support our campaign with a donation](https://anita.link/geyser), send sats to our lightning address bff@geyser.fund or send fiat money on [Patreon](https://patreon.com/anitaposch).
