user/pages/04.blog/articles-2022/221020-craig-wright/221020-cw.md, before:

---
taxonomy:
    tags: [Blog]
routes:
    default: '/craig-wright-loses-case'
date: 2022-10-20 18:35
dateformat: 'Y-m-d H:i'
summary: Craig Wright has been claiming that he is Satoshi Nakamoto for years. Now a court determined that Wright has not provided evidence that he is Satoshi.
thumbnail: _221020-hodlonaut.png
template: article 
---

# Craig Wright may be called a "fraud" and "scammer" 

## Wright didn't support his claims that he is Satoshi

Craig Wright is a "fraud" and "scammer" these words on Twitter from March 2019 caused a lot of trouble for Hodlonaut a pseudonymous Bitcoiner who was then sued for defamation by Craig Wright who has long claimed and failed to prove that he is Satoshi Nakamoto, the pseudonymous inventor of Bitcoin.

Now Oslo Judge Helen Engebrigtsen acquitted Hodlonaut of all claims for compensation and found him not liable for damages arising from his tweets and ruled that Hodlonaut’s use of words such as “fraud” and “scammer” to describe Wright were fair.

“In a situation where (Wright) has not succeeded in, nor does he wish to, provide cryptographic evidence that can support his claim to be Satoshi Nakamoto, the court believes that he must accept that there is a debate as to whether he is who he says he is,” says the transcript of the courts decision.

![Hodlonaut won defamation case](_221020-hodlonaut.png)

I'm sure this case is not over. Wright’s attorneys told CoinDesk already he would appeal the ruling and warned that “anonymous online bullying” could have a “chilling effect” on public discourse.

<small>[Source](https://cryptonews.com/news/craig-wright-defeated-lawsuit-against-hodlonaut.htm)</small>

---
You like my work and efforts with [Bitcoin for Fairness](https://bffbtc.org) to foster Bitcoin adoption on the ground in the Global South? It's all community powered and funded by donations. Feel free to [support our campaign with a donation](https://anita.link/geyser), send sats to our lightning address bff@geyser.fund or send fiat money on [Patreon](https://patreon.com/anitaposch).

Commit message:

Adding latest blogposts, imporve converter, add title to frontmatter for search results.

user/pages/04.blog/articles-2022/221020-craig-wright/221020-cw.md, after:

---
title: Craig Wright may be called a "fraud" and "scammer"
taxonomy:
    tags: [Blog]
routes:
    default: '/craig-wright-loses-case'
date: 2022-10-20 18:35
dateformat: 'Y-m-d H:i'
summary: Craig Wright has been claiming that he is Satoshi Nakamoto for years. Now a court determined that Wright has not provided evidence that he is Satoshi.
thumbnail: _221020-hodlonaut.png
template: article
---

# Craig Wright may be called a "fraud" and "scammer" 

## Wright didn't support his claims that he is Satoshi

Craig Wright is a "fraud" and "scammer" these words on Twitter from March 2019 caused a lot of trouble for Hodlonaut a pseudonymous Bitcoiner who was then sued for defamation by Craig Wright who has long claimed and failed to prove that he is Satoshi Nakamoto, the pseudonymous inventor of Bitcoin.

Now Oslo Judge Helen Engebrigtsen acquitted Hodlonaut of all claims for compensation and found him not liable for damages arising from his tweets and ruled that Hodlonaut’s use of words such as “fraud” and “scammer” to describe Wright were fair.

“In a situation where (Wright) has not succeeded in, nor does he wish to, provide cryptographic evidence that can support his claim to be Satoshi Nakamoto, the court believes that he must accept that there is a debate as to whether he is who he says he is,” says the transcript of the courts decision.

![Hodlonaut won defamation case](_221020-hodlonaut.png)

I'm sure this case is not over. Wright’s attorneys told CoinDesk already he would appeal the ruling and warned that “anonymous online bullying” could have a “chilling effect” on public discourse.

<small>[Source](https://cryptonews.com/news/craig-wright-defeated-lawsuit-against-hodlonaut.htm)</small>

---
You like my work and efforts with [Bitcoin for Fairness](https://bffbtc.org) to foster Bitcoin adoption on the ground in the Global South? It's all community powered and funded by donations. Feel free to [support our campaign with a donation](https://anita.link/geyser), send sats to our lightning address bff@geyser.fund or send fiat money on [Patreon](https://patreon.com/anitaposch).
