user/pages/04.blog/articles-2024/240227-alt-mobile-OS/240227-alt-mobile-OS.md, before:

---
taxonomy:
    tags: [Blog, Learn Bitcoin, Privacy]
routes:
    default: '/bitcoin-mobile-systems'
date: 2024-02-27 12:00
dateformat: 'Y-m-d H:i'
summary: Alternative operating systems for your mobile phone that increase privacy and security while using Bitcoin.
thumbnail: _Thumbnail-Bitcoin-On-Your-Phone.jpeg
template: article 
---

# Bitcoin on Your Phone - Alternatives to IOS and Android

Are you looking for an alternative operating system (OS) for your phone to use Bitcoin in a secure and private way? You don't need to stick with iOS or Android. Let's explore some alternative options.

## Alternative Operating Systems

* **GrapheneOS:** GrapheneOS is an open source privacy-focused mobile operating system. It is focused on the research and development of privacy and security technology. GrapheneOS offers Android app compatibility so you can install it e.g. on a Google Pixel phone. [Learn more at GrapheneOS](https://grapheneos.org/).

* **CalyxOS:** CalyxOS is another Android-based OS that focuses on privacy and security. Even though it is only supported by a limited number of devices, it is one of the best options for a Google-free OS while having regular system updates. [Check it out at CalyxOS](https://calyxos.org/).

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/7v6IiaMhOys?si=QR9w-79yhNvyXZnv" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## App Stores for Privacy

The next step is finding apps and specialized app stores that align with your security needs. 
You can use F-Droid for a wide range of free, open-source applications. To download apps from Google Play without revealing your identity, Aurora Store is the ideal choice. [Learn more here](https://f-droid.org/packages/com.aurora.store/).

## Conclusion

Switching to these alternatives might not be as convenient as using Android or iOS as you might need to put in some time for research and learning, but it's worth trying. The increased security and privacy for using Bitcoin on your phone is a strong incentive! Disclaimer: I haven’t tried it myself yet, but it’s on my todo list.

## Do you want to learn more about Bitcoin? 

> * Subscribe to my weekly newsletter: [The Orange Journal](https://anita.link/news)
> * Join my Bitcoin learning platform [Crack The Orange](https://cracktheorange.com) and I'll give you all the tools and knowledge you need to use Bitcoin in a secure way.
> * Read my book [(L)EARN BITCOIN](https://learnbitcoin.link/)

Commit message:

Adding latest blogposts, imporve converter, add title to frontmatter for search results.

user/pages/04.blog/articles-2024/240227-alt-mobile-OS/240227-alt-mobile-OS.md, after:

---
title: Bitcoin on Your Phone - Alternatives to IOS and Android
taxonomy:
    tags: [Blog, Learn Bitcoin, Privacy]
routes:
    default: '/bitcoin-mobile-systems'
date: 2024-02-27 12:00
dateformat: 'Y-m-d H:i'
summary: Alternative operating systems for your mobile phone that increase privacy and security while using Bitcoin.
thumbnail: _Thumbnail-Bitcoin-On-Your-Phone.jpeg
template: article
---

# Bitcoin on Your Phone - Alternatives to IOS and Android

Are you looking for an alternative operating system (OS) for your phone to use Bitcoin in a secure and private way? You don't need to stick with iOS or Android. Let's explore some alternative options.

## Alternative Operating Systems

* **GrapheneOS:** GrapheneOS is an open source privacy-focused mobile operating system. It is focused on the research and development of privacy and security technology. GrapheneOS offers Android app compatibility so you can install it e.g. on a Google Pixel phone. [Learn more at GrapheneOS](https://grapheneos.org/).

* **CalyxOS:** CalyxOS is another Android-based OS that focuses on privacy and security. Even though it is only supported by a limited number of devices, it is one of the best options for a Google-free OS while having regular system updates. [Check it out at CalyxOS](https://calyxos.org/).

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/7v6IiaMhOys?si=QR9w-79yhNvyXZnv" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## App Stores for Privacy

The next step is finding apps and specialized app stores that align with your security needs. 
You can use F-Droid for a wide range of free, open-source applications. To download apps from Google Play without revealing your identity, Aurora Store is the ideal choice. [Learn more here](https://f-droid.org/packages/com.aurora.store/).

## Conclusion

Switching to these alternatives might not be as convenient as using Android or iOS as you might need to put in some time for research and learning, but it's worth trying. The increased security and privacy for using Bitcoin on your phone is a strong incentive! Disclaimer: I haven’t tried it myself yet, but it’s on my todo list.

## Do you want to learn more about Bitcoin? 

> * Subscribe to my weekly newsletter: [The Orange Journal](https://anita.link/news)
> * Join my Bitcoin learning platform [Crack The Orange](https://cracktheorange.com) and I'll give you all the tools and knowledge you need to use Bitcoin in a secure way.
> * Read my book [(L)EARN BITCOIN](https://learnbitcoin.link/)
