user/pages/04.blog/articles-2021/211021-pod-134/211021-joerg-platzer-room77.md, before:

---
taxonomy:
    tags: [Blog, Show]
routes:
    default: '/joerg-platzer-room77'
date: 2021-10-21 12:00
dateformat: 'Y-m-d H:i'
summary: Meet Jörg Platzer, co-founder of Room77 in Berlin, the very first bar in the world to accept bitcoin for beer and burgers in 2011. Bitcoiners from around the world met in the Room, and their discussions sparked dozens of projects and ideas.
thumbnail: _211021-joerg-platzer-room77.jpeg
template: article 
---

# Podcast: Jörg Platzer Insights of the World's First Bitcoin Merchant

Meet Jörg Platzer, co-founder of Room77 in Berlin, the very first bar in the world to accept bitcoin for beer and burgers in 2011. Bitcoiners from around the world met in the Room, and their discussions sparked dozens of projects and ideas. Jörg's stories and views about Bitcoin and privacy are refreshing and motivating, he says "The future of Bitcoin is so bright, we'll need sunglasses" and "Freedom of transaction is a meta human right."

This episode was recorded on Sept 1, 2021.

<iframe width="100%" height="112" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" style="width: 100%; height: 112px;  overflow: hidden;" src="https://btcpodcasting.com/@anitaposch/episodes/joerg-platzer-room77/embed/dark"></iframe>

> “I wanted to have Bitcoin, I failed at mining, so why not just put on a sign and accept it.” – Jörg Platzer

> “Altcoins are valuable testnets.” – Jörg Platzer

Topics:
- Jörg Platzer's Bitcoin story
- how he realized that Bitcoin is unstoppable
- the search for digital cash
- how the early Bitcoin community saw Bitcoin
- why he closed the Room77
- why Peter Todd was the only one who understood the purpose of Room77
- 2011 you knew everyone who used Bitcoin on the planet
- Bitcoin in Germany
- no Bitcoin ATM and no exchange in Germany
- why Bitcoin start-ups are not incorporating in Germany
- Central Bank Digital Currencies are the dystopian surveillance and control nightmare
- the beauty of adopting Bitcoin in formerly colonized countries
- the poor people have much higher pressure to adopt bitcoin and therefore they will have a bigger advantage
- the economic power drives adoption, not privacy
- freedom of transaction is a meta human right
- atomic swaps between Bitcoin and Monero
- the Lightning Network
- Bitcoin in El Salvador
- Hyperbitcoinization
- Bitcoin mining from excess energy
- selling energy as exporting goods in form of bitcoin
- Black Rock in mining
- what defines a crypto anarchist
- the vision for Bitcoin
- using a Blockstream satellite dish

### How to listen to my podcast

This is a [Value4Value](https://value4value.info) bitcoin enabled podcast. This means you can use a lightning wallet like Breez on your phone and send some satoshis to me while listening to the episode. I'm adding images and links to the episode chapters, you can see them on [the Breez app](https://breez.technology), too. It's a podcast app and a non-custodial bitcoin wallet, with a lightning node running on your phone! (available for Android and iOS)

Search for The Anita Posch Show inside the podcast app or add the RSS feed directly and subscribe to my show. The URL for the [RSS Feed](https://btcpodcasting.com/@anitaposch/feed.xml) is https://btcpodcasting.com/@anitaposch/feed.xml. 

---
You like my work and efforts with [Bitcoin for Fairness](https://bffbtc.org) to foster Bitcoin adoption on the ground in the Global South? It's all community powered and funded by donations. Feel free to [support our campaign with a donation](https://anita.link/geyser), send sats to our lightning address bff@geyser.fund or send fiat money on [Patreon](https://patreon.com/anitaposch).

Commit message:

Adding latest blogposts, imporve converter, add title to frontmatter for search results.

user/pages/04.blog/articles-2021/211021-pod-134/211021-joerg-platzer-room77.md, after:

---
title: Podcast: Jörg Platzer Insights of the World's First Bitcoin Merchant
taxonomy:
    tags: [Blog, Show]
routes:
    default: '/joerg-platzer-room77'
date: 2021-10-21 12:00
dateformat: 'Y-m-d H:i'
summary: Meet Jörg Platzer, co-founder of Room77 in Berlin, the very first bar in the world to accept bitcoin for beer and burgers in 2011. Bitcoiners from around the world met in the Room, and their discussions sparked dozens of projects and ideas.
thumbnail: _211021-joerg-platzer-room77.jpeg
template: article
---

# Podcast: Jörg Platzer Insights of the World's First Bitcoin Merchant

Meet Jörg Platzer, co-founder of Room77 in Berlin, the very first bar in the world to accept bitcoin for beer and burgers in 2011. Bitcoiners from around the world met in the Room, and their discussions sparked dozens of projects and ideas. Jörg's stories and views about Bitcoin and privacy are refreshing and motivating, he says "The future of Bitcoin is so bright, we'll need sunglasses" and "Freedom of transaction is a meta human right."

This episode was recorded on Sept 1, 2021.

<iframe width="100%" height="112" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" style="width: 100%; height: 112px;  overflow: hidden;" src="https://btcpodcasting.com/@anitaposch/episodes/joerg-platzer-room77/embed/dark"></iframe>

> “I wanted to have Bitcoin, I failed at mining, so why not just put on a sign and accept it.” – Jörg Platzer

> “Altcoins are valuable testnets.” – Jörg Platzer

Topics:
- Jörg Platzer's Bitcoin story
- how he realized that Bitcoin is unstoppable
- the search for digital cash
- how the early Bitcoin community saw Bitcoin
- why he closed the Room77
- why Peter Todd was the only one who understood the purpose of Room77
- 2011 you knew everyone who used Bitcoin on the planet
- Bitcoin in Germany
- no Bitcoin ATM and no exchange in Germany
- why Bitcoin start-ups are not incorporating in Germany
- Central Bank Digital Currencies are the dystopian surveillance and control nightmare
- the beauty of adopting Bitcoin in formerly colonized countries
- the poor people have much higher pressure to adopt bitcoin and therefore they will have a bigger advantage
- the economic power drives adoption, not privacy
- freedom of transaction is a meta human right
- atomic swaps between Bitcoin and Monero
- the Lightning Network
- Bitcoin in El Salvador
- Hyperbitcoinization
- Bitcoin mining from excess energy
- selling energy as exporting goods in form of bitcoin
- Black Rock in mining
- what defines a crypto anarchist
- the vision for Bitcoin
- using a Blockstream satellite dish

### How to listen to my podcast

This is a [Value4Value](https://value4value.info) bitcoin enabled podcast. This means you can use a lightning wallet like Breez on your phone and send some satoshis to me while listening to the episode. I'm adding images and links to the episode chapters, you can see them on [the Breez app](https://breez.technology), too. It's a podcast app and a non-custodial bitcoin wallet, with a lightning node running on your phone! (available for Android and iOS)

Search for The Anita Posch Show inside the podcast app or add the RSS feed directly and subscribe to my show. The URL for the [RSS Feed](https://btcpodcasting.com/@anitaposch/feed.xml) is https://btcpodcasting.com/@anitaposch/feed.xml. 

---
You like my work and efforts with [Bitcoin for Fairness](https://bffbtc.org) to foster Bitcoin adoption on the ground in the Global South? It's all community powered and funded by donations. Feel free to [support our campaign with a donation](https://anita.link/geyser), send sats to our lightning address bff@geyser.fund or send fiat money on [Patreon](https://patreon.com/anitaposch).
