user/pages/04.blog/articles-2023/231130-Tutorial-Green-Wallet/Green-Wallet-Tutorial.md, before:

---
taxonomy:
    tags: [Blog, Learn Bitcoin, Wallets]
routes:
    default: '/green-wallet-tutorial'
date: 2023-11-30 12:00
dateformat: 'Y-m-d H:i'
summary: How to create and use the Green Wallet, a self-custody Bitcoin and Liquid wallet with advanced security features like 2FA, which makes spending your money without your consent impossible.
thumbnail: _Self-Custody-Green-Wallet-Tutorial.jpeg
template: article 
---

# Unlock the Power of Self-Custody: Green Wallet Tutorial
Self-custody is a key feature of Bitcoin which provides financial autonomy and security. By owning your own keys, you have full control over your digital assets. You are not dependent on financial institutions or other third parties. Additionally, you can protect your bitcoin savings from unauthorized access and potential systemic risks associated with centralized custodians.
My easy-to-follow tutorial is designed to equip you with all the necessary instructions and security tips to set up your Green Wallet. Afterwards, you will have the knowledge and confidence to take full control of your Bitcoin and become financially self-sovereign: Your Keys, Your Coins!

## Here's what you will learn
* How to install and open a new wallet
* How to backup your wallet with a seed phrase
* How to secure your wallet with a 2FA and a pin
* How to set your wallet preferences and adjust the app settings according to your needs
* How to receive bitcoin and create invoices
* How to create several accounts and wallets
* How to restore your wallet, e.g. in case you lose your phone
* How to check your used Bitcoin addresses

Each section of the tutorial is timestamped, so you can easily navigate through the content based on your interests and needs.

## Watch the full tutorial here
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/1vdpmPGBG_8?si=JTgrGekK-bZX2fJq" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Please find more information about the Green Wallet here: https://blockstream.com/green/

> Do you want to learn more about Bitcoin? 
> * Join my Bitcoin learning platform [Crack The Orange](https://cracktheorange.com) and I'll give you all the tools and knowledge you need to use Bitcoin without relying on authorities to truly achieve financial freedom. 
> * Read my book [(L)EARN BITCOIN](https://learnbitcoin.link/)
> * Subscribe to my weekly newsletter [The Orange Journal](https://anita.link/news)

Commit message:

Adding latest blogposts, imporve converter, add title to frontmatter for search results.

user/pages/04.blog/articles-2023/231130-Tutorial-Green-Wallet/Green-Wallet-Tutorial.md, after:

---
title: Unlock the Power of Self-Custody: Green Wallet Tutorial
taxonomy:
    tags: [Blog, Learn Bitcoin, Wallets]
routes:
    default: '/green-wallet-tutorial'
date: 2023-11-30 12:00
dateformat: 'Y-m-d H:i'
summary: How to create and use the Green Wallet, a self-custody Bitcoin and Liquid wallet with advanced security features like 2FA, which makes spending your money without your consent impossible.
thumbnail: _Self-Custody-Green-Wallet-Tutorial.jpeg
template: article
---

# Unlock the Power of Self-Custody: Green Wallet Tutorial
Self-custody is a key feature of Bitcoin which provides financial autonomy and security. By owning your own keys, you have full control over your digital assets. You are not dependent on financial institutions or other third parties. Additionally, you can protect your bitcoin savings from unauthorized access and potential systemic risks associated with centralized custodians.
My easy-to-follow tutorial is designed to equip you with all the necessary instructions and security tips to set up your Green Wallet. Afterwards, you will have the knowledge and confidence to take full control of your Bitcoin and become financially self-sovereign: Your Keys, Your Coins!

## Here's what you will learn
* How to install and open a new wallet
* How to backup your wallet with a seed phrase
* How to secure your wallet with a 2FA and a pin
* How to set your wallet preferences and adjust the app settings according to your needs
* How to receive bitcoin and create invoices
* How to create several accounts and wallets
* How to restore your wallet, e.g. in case you lose your phone
* How to check your used Bitcoin addresses

Each section of the tutorial is timestamped, so you can easily navigate through the content based on your interests and needs.

## Watch the full tutorial here
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/1vdpmPGBG_8?si=JTgrGekK-bZX2fJq" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Please find more information about the Green Wallet here: https://blockstream.com/green/

> Do you want to learn more about Bitcoin? 
> * Join my Bitcoin learning platform [Crack The Orange](https://cracktheorange.com) and I'll give you all the tools and knowledge you need to use Bitcoin without relying on authorities to truly achieve financial freedom. 
> * Read my book [(L)EARN BITCOIN](https://learnbitcoin.link/)
> * Subscribe to my weekly newsletter [The Orange Journal](https://anita.link/news)
