---
title: What I'm doing now - March 2024
taxonomy:
    tags: [Blog, Now]
routes:
    default: '/240313-now'
date: 2024-03-13 14:40
dateformat: 'Y-m-d H:i'
summary: Allowing myself a break - or sort of
thumbnail: _Anita-Posch-Show-Cover-700.png
template: article
---

# What I'm doing now - March 2024

## Allowing myself a break - or sort of

After traveling Switzerland, Indonesia, Ghana, Zimbabwe, South Africa and Namibia between October 2023 and February 2024 I'm back in Europe to get a little bit of a rest. Working on different continents and the challenges of constantly changing environments are what I always wanted to experience. At the same time it's taking a toll on my health. I'm not just traveling. I'm working hard at the same time. Keynote speaking, workshops, meetups, wallet testing, video editing, accounting, planning my travels - it's overwhelming sometimes. 

This month I'm thinking of how to reduce my workload and find a new focus. I want to escape the relentless force of social media, which is permanently requiring one to produce content. I realized I have been more focused on producing content for Twitter than thinking of what the long-term result of my work could be.

I will turn things around. Not social media should be the core of my publications, but my website, my newsletter and my membership and online course platform. The community of people on these platforms cannot be taken away from me, whereas Twitter or YouTube could deactivate my account every moment.

[<< previous](/231101-now) | [next >>](/240827-now)

<small>This is [a now page](https://nownownow.com/about), and if you have your own site, [you should make one](https://nownownow.com/about), too.</small>