user/pages/04.blog/articles-2023/230401-flyer-new-languages/BFF Flyer in new languages.md, before:

---
taxonomy:
    tags: [Blog, Learn Bitcoin, Earn bitcoin]
routes:
    default: '/bitcoin-flyer-francais-deutsch-slovak'
date: 2023-04-01
dateformat: 'Y-m-d H:i'
summary: Updated the Bitcoin flyer, a short intro to using Bitcoin for meetups and beginners. With Blue Wallet and Phoenix. Available in Francais, Slovak, Deutsch and Portuguese Brazilian.
thumbnail: assets/_BFF-EN-Bitcoin-flyer-page2.JPG
template: article 
---

# Bitcoin flyer in French, German, Slovak and Portuguese Brazilian

Recently I updated the English version of the [Bitcoin flyer](https://anitaposch.com/bff-flyer-23). The Bitcoin flyer is a 2 page folder about the basic characteristics of Bitcoin and how one can use it. We at [BFF](https://bffbtc.org) wanted to offer free educational material to hand out at our meetups. Now our fabulous volunteer translators helped to translate it to Slovak, German, French and Portuguese Brazilian.

![](_BFF%20Flyer%20in%20new%20languages.jpeg)

You can download, print and use the [PDF](https://bffbtc.org/flyer) for free.

-----
<div class="_form_1"></div><script src="https://bff.activehosted.com/f/embed.php?id=1" type="text/javascript" charset="utf-8"></script>

-----
You like my work and my efforts with @BFFbtc to foster Bitcoin adoption on the ground in the Global South? It's all community powered and funded by donations. 

Feel free to support via https://geyser.fund/project/bff or send sats to our⚡️lightning address bff@geyser.fund

Commit message:

Adding latest blogposts, imporve converter, add title to frontmatter for search results.

user/pages/04.blog/articles-2023/230401-flyer-new-languages/BFF Flyer in new languages.md, after:

---
title: Bitcoin flyer in French, German, Slovak and Portuguese Brazilian
taxonomy:
    tags: [Blog, Learn Bitcoin, Earn bitcoin]
routes:
    default: '/bitcoin-flyer-francais-deutsch-slovak'
date: 2023-04-01
dateformat: 'Y-m-d H:i'
summary: Updated the Bitcoin flyer, a short intro to using Bitcoin for meetups and beginners. With Blue Wallet and Phoenix. Available in Francais, Slovak, Deutsch and Portuguese Brazilian.
thumbnail: assets/_BFF-EN-Bitcoin-flyer-page2.JPG
template: article
---

# Bitcoin flyer in French, German, Slovak and Portuguese Brazilian

Recently I updated the English version of the [Bitcoin flyer](https://anitaposch.com/bff-flyer-23). The Bitcoin flyer is a 2 page folder about the basic characteristics of Bitcoin and how one can use it. We at [BFF](https://bffbtc.org) wanted to offer free educational material to hand out at our meetups. Now our fabulous volunteer translators helped to translate it to Slovak, German, French and Portuguese Brazilian.

![](_BFF%20Flyer%20in%20new%20languages.jpeg)

You can download, print and use the [PDF](https://bffbtc.org/flyer) for free.

-----
<div class="_form_1"></div><script src="https://bff.activehosted.com/f/embed.php?id=1" type="text/javascript" charset="utf-8"></script>

-----
You like my work and my efforts with @BFFbtc to foster Bitcoin adoption on the ground in the Global South? It's all community powered and funded by donations. 

Feel free to support via https://geyser.fund/project/bff or send sats to our⚡️lightning address bff@geyser.fund
